Kyle Romero
204747283
TA: Tan
Lab Section 7

Lab #1: Linux and Emacs Scavenger Hunt

1) First, I used the hint to look at the man page for man
by typing in 'man man'. Then, I was able to locate that
the command for printing commands with a certain keyword
is 'man -k (insert keyword here)'. This command will print
out any commands that have the keyword located at (insert
keyword here) in their name or description.

2) Finding the locations of these programs can be done
using the 'which' command. In general, you can find the
location of any program by typing 'which program' where
program is the name of the program you are looking for.
So, for cp we use 'which cp' and we get a path location of
/usr/local/cs/bin/cp and similarly for wc we use 'which wc'
to find that the path of the program is /usr/local/cs/bin/wc.

3) First we note that the commands we can execute are location
a /usr/bin. Then, we use the find command to find things.
Inspecting the man page for find, by typing 'man find' we
see that we are able to specify a pattern to search for using the
-name tag. Therefore, we combine these findings to construct
the command 'find /usr/bin -name "?"', which responds with
the following commands and their purposes can be found by using man:
/usr/bin/[ - Used to evaluate a conditional expression,
the same as the 'test' command
/usr/bin/w - Show who is logged on and what they are doing
/usr/bin/X - Listed, but note this is not a program but
rather a symoblic link to Xorg

4) In order to inspect the emacs program and what it symbolically
links to, I first navigate into the /usr/bin folder. Once
there, I will use the ls -l command to inspect what the emacs
command actually links to. Furthermore, we can utilize piping
to feed the output of 'ls -l' into the command 'grep emacs' and
filter the output to show us only the lines of output that
might be relevant. Therefore, we use the command 'ls -l | grep
emacs' to see that the emacs command symbolically links to
etc/alternatives/emacs.

5) chmod deals with changing permissions on a file. In that
context and noting what we learned in discussion, g denotes the
file owner's group and s represents the user accessing the file.
Therefore, g+s gives the user accessing the file the same
permissions as the file owner's group.

Second, the 'o-x' part means that we are removing the executable
permission for those in the other category. o stands for
other, anyone that is not the file owner or in the file owner's
group. The '-' means that we are moving this particular permission
instead of adding it. Finally, the 'x' means executable permission.
Therefore, the combination 'o-x' means that we are removing
executable permissions for those in the other group.

6) First we search the man page for find. Inside of this document
we find that the option -ctime n, where n is essentially the
number of days we want to look back for. Therefore, the option for
find that allows us to search for files modified in the last
three weeks is 'find -ctime -21'. Note the time is negative because
we are interested in the past.

7) In order to find all directories that have been modified in the
last three weeks we want to look at all directories that come
from the root directory. Adapting my previous answer, I found that
I could use the command 'find / -ctime -21 -type d' to print
all directories that were modified in the past three weeks. The
'/' tells the find command to search in the root directory and
we specify '-type d' in order to only print the directories and
not other structures such as files and symoblic links.

8) There are 293 symbolic links in the same directory as find on
the 09 seasnet server (note: this number is different on the
07 server, there are 246 on 07). This was found using the command
'ls -l | grep ^l | wc'. First, we list the files in the same
directory and pipe on the output. Then, we filter and only print
the lines that begin with an 'l', denoting a link. We can tell
grep to only look for such lines by using the '^' which means only
print lines that start with the following pattern. Then, we
pipe the output again into the wc command which oututs the newline
count for a given input, followed by the word count and the
byte count.

9) Looking at the man page for ls I was able to find that we can
use the '-t' option to sort the files by modification time with
the newest being listed first. Then, we want to look for regular
files which are denoted as starting with a '-'. Therefore, we
can use the command 'ls -lt /usr/lib | grep ^-' to see the regular
files in the /usr/lib directory sorted by last modified date.
This yields the oldest file of: libgpg-error.so.0.10.0.

10) Looking at the man page for locale we see that the data for
each locale is located in the following two directories:
/usr/lib/locale/locale-archive and /usr/share/i18n/locales.
Based on the environment variables that are set we know which
locale data to use.

11) Using what I learned in discussion, running emacs, and
navigating through some help pages, I was able to find the help
page that decribes what the command 'C-h a' does. After entering
this command, you can specify a keyword to search for amongst
the commands for emacs. After using this command to search for
sort, I was able to find the following commands:
Buffer-menu-sort
sort-columns
sort-fields
sort-lines
sort-numeric-fields
sort-pages
sort-paragraphs
sort-regexp-fields
tabulated-list-col-sort
tabulated-list-sort

12) To find what each of these keystrokes do, I was able to
find that the emacs keystroke 'C-h b' opens up a window that contains
all of the key bindings for emacs. Once I have opened
this window from the emacs screen, you can use the command 'C-x o' to
switch to the new window. Then we can search for the first
command the assignment asks for using 'C-s' and then typing in
'C-M a'. This yields the following functions for the commands asked for:
C-M a - beginning-of-defun: Move backward to the beginning of defun
C-M b - backward-sexp: Move backward across one balanced expression (sexp)
C-M c - exit-recursive-edit: Exit from the innermost recursive edit
      	or minibuffer.
C-M d - down-list: Move forward down one level of parenthesis
C-M e - end-of-defun: Move forward to the next end of defun
C-M f - forward-sexp: Move forward across one balanced expression (sexp)
C-M g - mark-defun: Put mark at end of this defun, point at beginning

13) Using the same strategy as in the previous question
(using the emacs command 'C-h b' and then searching for this keystroke),
I found that the emacs command C-g is used for the following:
C-g - keyboard-quit: This will signal a 'quit' condition.
During exectution of Lisp code, this character causes a quit directly.
Taken directly from the emacs help page.

14) Using a similar strategy as the previous two questions
(using the emacs command 'C-h b' and then searching for 'yank') I found
that the yank command "Resinserts ('pastes') the last stretch of killed text."

15) First, I found the keystroke for dired in the same manner as
the last three questions (using the emacs command 'C-h b' and then
searching for dired) then, I used the dired command to look at the
contents of /usr/bin. I found that there was not a significant
difference other than dired lists the '.' and '..' directories in
addition everything that ls -l lists.


